BABU A DHALAIT
Cyber Security Engineer
PROFILE SUMMARY
 Cybersecurity Engineer with hands-on experience in Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration
Testing (VAPT), Web Security, Threat Modeling, Cloud Security, DevSecOps, Network Security,
and adherence to Security Standards such as OWASP Top 10, SANS 25, and GDPR.
 Certified Professional in Ethical Hacking (CEH), Cloud Security (CCSE) and DevSecOps (CDE).
 Passionate and driven to excel in challenging roles within dynamic technological environments,
particularly those emphasiwireless communications and cutting-edge technologies.
 Dedicated to leveraging my skills and expertise to achieve organizational objectives while fostering
professional growth, contributing
to mutual success, and driving innovation.
WORK EXPERIENCE
CDM Smith Cyber Security Engineer
Sept 2020 – Present
 Established security best practices into the SDLC, resulting in a 'secure by design' approach and
faster release timelines.
 Performed PRD Review, Threat Modeling, Architecture Review, and API Gateway config review.
 Develop and implement effective cyber security plans to maintain the security of computer
files against unauthorized modification, destruction, and disclosure
• Strong understanding of cloud security concepts (SaaS, PaaS, IaaS), network and application
security, and data protection.
 Recognize 250+ new viruses and malware while safeguarding and observing more than
60+ Websites without any major attacks
 Employ automatic updates and mentor 375 employees on cyber security best practices,
which reduced risk of attacks by 27%
• Integrated security practices into the CI/CD pipeline using tools like Jenkins, TeamCity, and
GitHub Actions.
• Implemented container security by scanning Docker images for vulnerabilities and enforcing
secure deployment practices in Kubernetes.
Impelsys: Cyber Security Analyst
March 2020 – Sept 2020
• Conduct regular security assessments and vulnerability scans on cloud infrastructure.
• Develop and enforce cloud security policies and best practices organization-wide.
• Performed pen-test on 150+ Web Apps, 10 Android apps and backend APIs belonging to
large BFSI companies.
• Successfully delivered up to 95 security review projects each month by efficiently along
with 15 team members.
• Efficiently handled project management, client interaction, and project delivery for a private
bank.
• Delivered 5 workshops and sessions to up-skill team members.
Integra Micro Software Services: Security Analyst
March 2019 – March 2020
 Performed Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing of 10+ Web apps and Android apps
belonging to BFSI sector.
• Found 15+ high-severity issues across backend, mobile, and web apps, ensured timely
resolution, reduced risk posture.
• Worked on AWS services like API, EC2, Lambda, CloudWatch, RDS, KMS, Cloud
Formation.
• Automated vulnerability scanning and compliance checks using dynamic (DAST) and static
(SAST) security tools within development workflows.
 Conducted security reviews of apps belonging to leading private banks and government portals.
CONTACTS
Email: badhalait@gmail.com
Phone: 8151829091
Web Application Security
Cloud Security
DevSecOps
API Security Testing
Identity & Access Management
(IAM)
Infrastructure patching
Vulnerability Assessment and
Penetration Testing (VAPT)
Windows, Linux, Kali Linux
Veracode, Burp Suite, ZAP,
Nessus
AppScan, Qualys, IPS/IDS, DLP
Wireshark, Nmap, Checkmarx,
SonarQube
Aqua Security, Twistlock
Netcat, Postman, Metasploit,
msfvenom
Active Directory (AD), DHCP,
DNS, File ServersOWASP
Top 10, SANS 25
Cookie Editors, Hash Decryption
Techniques
AWSWAF, Cloud Inspector,
CloudWatch, CloudTrail
AWS Macie, Azure Sentinel
Jenkins, GitLab CI/CD, Docker,
Kubernetes
Terraform, Ansible, Nexus,
SonarCloud, Trivy
EDUCATION
Bachelor of Engineering (BE) from
KLS Gogte Institute of Technology,
affidiated to VTU.
CERTIFICATIONS
Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)
Cloud Security Certification
Certified DevSecOps Expert (CDE)
